\input texinfo
@c %**start of header
@setfilename nxt-disassem
@settitle NXT RXE File Reader and Disassembler
@c %**end of header

@copying
GPL v3 or later

Copyright @copyright{} 2010,2011 Willem Rein Oudshoorn
@end copying

@titlepage
@title NXT RXE File Reader
@subtitle and Disassembler
@author Willem Rein Oudshoorn

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Short Sample (what is this?)

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu

* Introduction:: Status of the project
* Disassmbler:: The disassembler

@end menu

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

This is an incomplete parser for the NXT RXE file format.  
It will be able to generate a disassembly of the byte code present
in the file, also it contains code to parse the data structures
and split the static initalization vector into the right components.  

However all the tying together is not done yet.

@section What works

Assuming you have a rxe file like @code{test.rxe} the following 
(more or less interesting bits) works

@lisp
(setf *p* (nxt-disassem:parse-nxt-rxe-file "test.rxe"))

(nxt-disassem:print-assembly *p*)
(nxt-disassem:make-call-graph *p*)

(nxt-disassem::parse-dstoc-table 
  (nxt-disassem::dstoc-table 
    (nxt-disassem::data-space *p*)))

(nxt-disassem::default-static-data (nxt-disassem::data-space *p*))
@end lisp

The @code{parse-dstoc-table} and @code{default-static-data} will
give lists which have the same structure and the elements correspond.
That is the entry described in @code{parse-dstoc-table} is 
initialized, if so required, from the corresponding element in @code{default-static-data}.

@node NXT RXE File Parser
@chapter NXT RXE File Parser

This part parses a nxt rxe file into CLOS objects by
using the gigimonkeys binary file reader.

The layout of the RXE file format is documented by Lego/Mindstorm
and can be found in the document @cite{LEGO® MINDSTORMS® NXT Executable File Specification}.

This document is essential to understand the result of the parser.

The RXE file consists of 4 sections
@multitable @columnfractions 0.2 0.8
@headitem Section @tab CLOS class
@item File Header
@tab
@code{rxe-file-header}
@item Data Space
@tab
@code{rxe-data-space}
@item Clump Records
@tab
@code{clump-records}
@item Code Space
@tab
@code{code-words}
@end multitable

@section rxe-file-header

This is a straight forward mapping from the fields described in
the LEGO reference guide to CLOS slots

@section rxe-data-space

@section Dope Vector

The dope vector has 5 fields: 

@itemize 
@item 
offset - Offset of the data in the dataspace area
@item
element size - The size of each element of the vector
@item 
element count - The number of elements in the array
@item
back pointer - According to the documentation the backpointer is ignored
@item 
link index - making a linked list of the dope entries
@end itemize

The documentation of the back pointer entry states that it is ignored.
However the files I have seen indicate that it points to the
entry in the dataspace which points to this dope entry.

The other inconsistency I noticed is that according to the
documentation the link index can never be 0 for non root dva, but the
files have 0.  It seems that the root DV is included in the linked
list, following all other rules.


@node Disassembler
@chapter Disassembler

The disassembler disassembles the `code-words' section of the RXE file.
The main function is

@deffn Function parse-code data

This takes a vector of 16-bit integers (the NXT bytecodes)  and disassembles it
to a list of instructions.   Each instruction looks like:

(index :instruction instruction ...)

Where the index is the position in the data vector and the instruction
is the symbol representing the byte code instruction.

@end deffn
@bye
